Prayer is an important thing.
Everything I do, I always go to Jehovah in Prayer and ask for his guidance.
I was born in the 26th of March, 1923 in Panama.
I was baptized on August 1946 at Cleveland, Ohio.
I've started pioneering in January of 1947,
where there are a couple of scriptures that have been most influential in my life.
One in Psalm 55, 22, which says,
through your burden on Jehovah and he will sustain you,
never will he allow the righteous one to fall.
One of the most trying experiences of my life
was facing the selective service board.
I registered as was required by law
and I received a classification of 1A, fit for military service.
I then spoke with the Society's Legal Department
and I was instructed to appeal the decision
because I was a regular pioneer.
I had to go to the draft board
and there I was severely questioned.
One of the problems they had was that I had a part-time job
and they felt that that interfered with my being classified as a full-time minister.
However, because I was conducting about 12 Bible studies at that time,
I took copies of all those records and presented it to the board.
The chairman said to me,
are you saying if we were to talk to all of these people,
they would tell us that you're conducting Bible studies with them every week
and I said yes sir.
While they are deliberating,
I am praying hard to hope I have done to make a proper decision.
In a few days time, the classification card came as 4D.
I was classified as a religious minister
and I lift my thought to Jehovah and thank you Jehovah very much.
And when I was in the circuit work in Cuba,
I had a few encounters with soldiers.
It's difficult to understand the tense atmosphere
that existed back in those days,
the freedom that those rivers had with shooting people and even participants people.
They didn't have a second thought.
I had just got through serving a congregation in the hills
and we took the local bus that ran around that area
and on the highway, two soldiers stopped the bus
and ordered all men to come off.
They started looking at each of us one by one,
sending everybody back on the bus and they looked at me and said,
you, stay there.
Pointing the rifle at me and said,
who are you?
I explained myself,
but they kept pointing the rifle.
One of the soldiers said to the driver,
take off, but that's when you pray hard
and you remember the scripture,
Proverbs 29, 25,
trembling at men is a snare,
but the one trusting in Jehovah will be protected.
So the driver said, no, he's a circuit over syrup.
He rides with me out of one and he really defended me
and makes me believe that Jehovah's Angels intervene.
And that's why I said,
I am a slave to prayer.
It's the most important thing in my life.
When I came back to the United States,
I was being used by the service department
in the full-time work.
A few years later,
I had to give up the full-time work and take care of my family.
The adjustment I had to make to a family man
was hard because most of my life was occupied
in full-time service.
But I had to leave matters in Jehovah's hands.
We started the prison ministry around May of 1974.
It gives you a measure of satisfaction
and seeing how the Bible has a very strong influence on individual.
To see criminals turn their life completely wrong,
the Bible changes lives.
And that's why pioneering has always been in my heart.
And so after my wife died,
I felt that the proper thing to do
was to get back into the full-time service.
And as a result of that, I started pioneering again in 1998.
Jehovah God has been good to me
and at my age of 96,
I thank Jehovah every day
for the health and strength he promised me to enjoy.
And I keep on going.